Programming Background
================

## Thoughts on R

### What are your thoughts on R vs whatever other software you’ve used?

R is a particularly good choice for frequent users that plan to deal
more extensively with statistics and don’t want to be restricted by
their statistical program R is a popular, open-source statistics
environment that can be extended by packages almost at will. R is
commonly used with RStudio, a comfortable development environment that
can be used locally or in a client-server installation via a web
browser. R applications can also be used directly and interactively on
the web via Shiny. <br>

### What functionality do you like about R?

1.Very large range of functions (well over 2,000 packages)<br>

2.New statistical methods are quickly implemented<br>

3.Very easy to automate and integrate (for example, with Git, LaTeX,
ODBC, Oracle R Enterprise, teradataR, Apache Hadoop, Microstrategy,
etc.)<br>

4.Very good community support, as well as fee-based support via
third-party providers<br>

5.Extensive help resources freely available (manuals, tutorials, and so
on)<br>

6.Very powerful and flexible scripting language (e.g. support of
object-oriented programming)<br>

7.All common platforms are supported (Windows, Linux, MacOS…)<br>

8.Future-proof due to very large, active developer community <br>

9.R is an open-source language is a language on which we can work
without any need for a license or a fee.

### What parts do you miss about your other language?

Getting familiar with the R syntax presents a barrier to entry for me.
Powerful hardware is required when working with very large data sets
which is not required for other languages.<br>

### Do you consider R a difficult language to learn?

R is a very complicated language, and it has a steep learning curve. The
people who don’t have prior knowledge or programming experience may find
it difficult to learn R. In comparison to other programming language, R
packages are much slower. Algorithms are spread across different
packages. The programmers who have no prior knowledge of packages may
find it difficult to implement algorithms As many have said, R makes
easy things hard, and hard things easy.

## Example of a R Markdown output

![](../images/unnamed-chunk-1-1.png)<!-- -->
